I saw a really subtle indication in the
news today that peda People for the
Ethical Treatment of Animals PETA huge
well-funded international position
I saw subtle indication that they may
have finally heard the criticism of
their t'east --less exploitation of the
sex appeal of veganism that they've
heard the criticism and responded to it
by making their outreach and advertising
program even worse here's what you may
have missed even if you are following
the vegan news on various websites maybe
just don't read it or hear on youtube
this year pedda put out a press release
announcing Eva Duvernay and Benedict
Cumberbatch as pet 'as most beautiful
vegans now what's new about this how can
this possibly be newsworthy or worth
discussing don't they do some kind of
tacky crass sexiest vegan award every
six months or even more often it seems
like every couple of months they find
another excuse news in this here's
here's the subtle difference you may
have missed last year they were not the
most beautiful vegan celebrities last
year the award went to the sexiest vegan
celebrities you notice you know it's the
difference of wording just a couple of
months ago on this same YouTube channel
I made a short video it's one of my
least popular videos nobody paid it much
attention in which I pointed out that
pet is sexiest vegan award it's not sexy
anymore it has almost nothing to do with
sex appeal in a very curious where I
just went through the list of nominees
now the winners were chosen it was kind
of people competing on who had who had
the best sob story who had the boast
most tear-jerking account of all the
different charities they support or how
oppressed they are in terms of their own
cultural background how they come from
some kind of poverty-stricken ethnically
disadvantaged background but
nevertheless today volunteer in a church
basement to feed starving people with
one arm and one leg and teaching them
how to do a square dance like really it
was that bad it was like sorry this is a
this is a beauty competition this is a
beauty contest this is an award for
sexiest vegan that's being awarded on
the basis of GART area that have nothing
to do with sex appeal and indeed just in
looking through the photos you got one
photograph of each of the contestants in
the last the last competition I covered
um most of them there wasn't even an
attempt to make them look sexy like
whether or not these people were
objectively or subjectively sexy like
the one photo you got was obviously not
the most flattering
it wasn't even attempted make the people
exactly so at that time I threw up some
screenshots but that was it I discussed
it but this is the year this is the year
2018 were apparently petaa acknowledged
my criticism and the criticism other
thing I could say thousands of others
and they dropped the word sexiest go to
the title and replaced it with most
beautiful and here's the tragic thing
the result has been that they've made it
even worse they they haven't solved the
problem they haven't made it better
they've made the problem worse now if
you've been on the unit for a while I
don't have a word for this phenomenon
but I'm sure you've seen this again and
again I can remember on tumblr the
tumblr is a website text an image-based
it's not not a video website you can
post videos on there but at the time it
was mostly some more like a written blog
the website where people would share
their thoughts and feelings about things
and somebody put together a meme that
showed a conventionally beautiful woman
someone who was a bikini model and it
showed a woman who was dying of some
terrible affliction some disease that
made her wither away but was smiling for
the camera
you know I don't know from some
newspaper story about her terrible
disease that's causing her to wither
away and die and you know the woman who
was ill you know she did I think she had
no hair or and so on she was really a
sort of a me seed it goes to a woman and
there's this angry text below it saying
you know if you don't think that these
two people are equally beautiful
then you're a terrible person you should
be ashamed of yourself and telling
people to repost and thumbs up and give
the harder to give the like to this pose
to show how much they agree with the
idea that the people in these two
photographs are equally beautiful so
beautiful the word here is is beautiful
now you know the Internet is a place
that seems to both you know reward
stupidity and encourage a kind of silent
conformism of thought in these things
but I actually saw some some substantive
responses to this particular image this
particular meme of people objecting and
saying no let's let's stop and really
think about what the word Beauty the
word beautiful means why can't we just
say why can't we just acknowledge you
know yeah maybe beauty is shallow
maybe it's skin deep maybe beauty is in
the eye that beholder but beauty isn't
moral value beauty isn't intellectual
value beauty isn't a political judgment
or a moral judgment or ethical judgment
it's not any of these things if we're
gonna talk about you who's beautiful
here if we running given a word for
who's beautiful value people people
let's really face up to what beauty is
let's stop trying to misrepresent beauty
as morality I guess and really in this
case the case of this particular meme
names over the the morality of the
person in the picture
it's actually the the morality of the
beholder so the person looking at the
picture it's the morality of you you
recognizing beauty so I remember that
the controversy and obviously there was
a kind of feminist social justice
warrior reaction of this that no no we
mustn't we mustn't acknowledge you know
beauty is something different from from
morality I suppose but to make a
judgement that one person is more
beautiful
is you know allegedly from their
perspective a deeply immoral thing Oh
pedda people with the ethical Trudy
manimals they've been in the business of
judging who's sexiest and who's most
beautiful for many many years and I
really wonder why I doubt it's because
they saw my video on my youtube channel
why was it only now in 2017 that they
were supposed sorry 2015 was the last
year when they used the word sexiest why
is only now in 2018 that they finally
turned the corner and gotten rid of the
word sexiest so last year
I'm guessing they came to some kind of
terrible indecisive you know judgment on
this their finalists last year for the
sexiest vegan celebrity included Swizz
Beatz who's an MC associated with hip
hop music Ricky Gervais is so Ricky
Gervais I'm not hating on him
nobody would nominate Ricky Gervais in a
in a sexiest anything competition I'm
not he's not ugly don't get me wrong
he's a comedian and he's an entertainer
but already there's there's kind of a
difficult question what look some don't
get me wrong people are gonna find Ricky
Gervais is sexy there's a different lady
for every pot but if you're having a
beauty competition giving it whatever I
mean what is the point of having a
beauty competition it's so
mind-numbingly stupid to begin with but
given the premise that you're gonna have
a most beautiful vegan competition or a
sexiest vegan competition obviously the
criteria here aren't really beauty or
sex appeal when you're talking about
people like Swizz Beatz and Ricky
Gervais is on the male side and the
winners in 2016 they apparently couldn't
decide on who to give the award to so
they split it three ways between Ruby
Rose Jenna Dewan Tatum and Maggie Q
Bazar and I mean look the Internet
was invented apparently to agregate you
know images that other human beings find
sexy and appealing you can really easily
and really rapidly now find examples of
people of RZA and vegans specifically
who've risen to public acclaim and
public Fame because other people find
the beautiful other people find them
sexy and and this ain't it
and now they've taken a step further in
2018 the word sexy is gone obviously
some people are gonna find Ava Duvernay
attractive some people can find Benedict
Cumberbatch attractive don't get me
wrong but the judgment being made on
them here is obviously moral rather than
aesthetic rather than having anything to
do with beauty obviously they're making
a political statement in claiming that
Ava Duvernay
is a beautiful person and get even the
photographs they're using of her this is
not the most flattering or most
beautiful or most sexy photograph of her
possible you could probably you know put
together a photo shoot it looks at in
this way um
Benedict Cumberbatch is not the sexiest
male vegan in the world he's not the
sexiest you know cast member of the
Avengers or whatever other crappy
mainstream movies he's been in lately
you know he's not rubbing on even the
sexiest man to have played the role of
dr. strange you know I'm sorry I can put
up some really unflattering photographs
of of who he is and what he looks like
um in covering this look this is not
news this is a story that I think is
dying and I'm drawing your attention to
it precisely because of its lack of
relevance
I've had a lot of discussion on my
channel now and I've had a lot of
gushing over the last four years about
what is effective activism we are pretty
much never going to be debating or
criticizing a form of activism that has
zero impact zero effect or zero outcome
you can think of the worst and most
embarrassing and most pathetic form of
activism you can find on the Internet
or in real life and I guarantee you if
you look around you'll find someone who
puts up their hand and says they
converted to veganism because of it I
personally find it both laughable and
cringe-inducing
to see John sack arse John sack ours as
a musician notorious she was Asian
John sack Cara's making one song after
another about his sex life and how
allegedly his sex life got so much
better because he became vegan we all
know it's not true if you just scroll
through his training a little bit
further you can find more honest videos
we talked about how terrible his sex
life is and how his whole life is
falling apart since he became vegan
interesting character but like the you
know these awful videos from John cigars
it would be very easy for someone to
kind of jump to the conclusion oh this
makes us look crazy it makes vegans look
crazy this dis credits the movement this
is bad for veganism this is ineffective
activism this can't pause before
everyone trust me
I I guarantee I guarantee there were are
people I know one person who loves the
work of Trance a cars there may only be
one I know one vegan activist who takes
a lot of positive inspiration from what
he does and I know there will be people
out there who first got the concept of
veganism even if they were laughing at
it and not laughing with it
from John sackers playing the guitar and
wiggling his tongue around on camera and
talking about a sex life it's ridiculous
it's awful but if you're trying to make
the judgement does it have zero efficacy
like if you're this a simple binary does
it work or does it not work it's not
easy to just say with this kind of
cultural expression well it doesn't work
it's broken it should be get discarded
right I mean by the same token I'm not
gonna sit here in a shallow way say to
you that petaa people their equal
treatment animals that this organisation
petaa that they've done nothing positive
for the vegan movement by year after
year having these awful embarrassing
cringe-inducing
terrible sexiest vegan competitions now
rebranded as most beautiful vegan I'm
not gonna say that's you I'm sure
somewhere maybe right now in the comment
sections video someone can put up their
hand
and say that they discovered veganism
and joined the movement or first took an
interest in the ethics or the ecology of
animals and you know the importance of
not eating meat because they read in a
newspaper that Maggie Q was thus
allegedly the sexiest vegan in the world
according to this you know charity this
nonprofit that does this thing it's
gonna have more than zero outcome right
but here's the metric it's not
arithmetic where we compare things to
zero value right
life is short the process and the
product here involves you
you have only so many years of your life
you have only so many hours in so many
days to try to make an impact and you
have to decide is this how your time and
your budget is gonna be spent I've
raised this question most recently with
the you know a form of vegan activism
that involves standing in silence
wearing a mask for four hours and that I
asked the hard question that inevitably
has been asked isn't there a more
effective way for you to be spending
your time and sure to some extent money
in that case it's more times than money
I can't imagine anything less effective
for peda to be doing with this time and
money and effort like I really think if
you sat down and did a brainstorming
session and threw darts at a board and
tried to come up with something you know
what could be worse and the sad irony is
what this really shows just like the
example I talked about from from tumblr
from this blog just like the example
this meme showing a very sickly woman
dying of a disease contrasted some
beautiful bikini model it shows the
profound discomfort with both physical
beauty with sexiness itself and the
discomfort with talking about ethics as
ethics
pedda if you want to give an award for
the most ethically outstanding vegan of
the year do that tell that go right
ahead if you want to give an award for
the most outstanding creative artist in
veganism of the year or the best
documentary filmmaker of the year there
are so many awards that ava duvernay
could be a respected candidate for and
where i think she would respect and
appreciate the award more and where the
public would respect and appreciate what
petaa was doing more but you make a
farce out of yourself you make a farce
out of Ava Duvernay you make a far set
of veganism by pretending to give an
award for most beautiful and most sexy
vegan when you're so deeply
uncomfortable in dealing with what
beauty and sexuality are really all
about
[Music]